Good day. Good day. Full stick
to you. My name is Clifford
Indiana and I am one of the
applicants who would like to to
join the full stack team as
well.
So as part of my as part of my
application process generate the
the full state team I was
provided with a project that I
had to complete in a in a period
of the day.
So the the project is called
commute. So just quickly briefly
the the whole purpose of commit
is is to address like the
increase in in fuel prices and
also the the high traffic
congestions on the road. So it's
to help.
Uh commuters to save time on the
road and also to cut down costs
that come with I'm committing in
in cars. So one of the preview
preview, the one that was was it
the reporting? So one of the.
One of the one of the
instructions that it provided.
No window on the project was
that like? Yes, as much as as
much as I really. I was really
pushing to to finish the project
within the given time frame.
One of the instructions that if
if if there's a, there's a part
that you didn't get to. I'm I
should comment, I should comment
it out on the code like
explaining my approach to to to
the program in question. So I go
to myself. Yes, I I I really
think I really think commenting
would definitely do the justice,
but I thought perhaps maybe
recording a video and also like
sharing the code itself and
explaining like the step by step
things that I would do.
Yeah, I thought that would be
even more comprehensible. So I
hope that the video is gonna be
working received.
Umm so yes, how would like to go
about the presentation is that
I'm gonna be I'm gonna be
sharing the the project
specification.
Sharing each feature, that's
that that's expected from the
project and with the feature I'm
gonna be showing on the on the
code itself and the the the site
itself. How that feature is, is
is is getting achieved and then
when the features themselves,
I'd like to request to start
with the features that I was
able to get you on time and and
then move on to the features
that I couldn't finish one time.
And also it's been how I was
going to how would you move.
Ohh, into toys, toys, tickling
those those questions.
So now to to just quickly share
my code.
I'm gonna be sharing my screen
now.
All right, so this is the, this
is the page description that I'm
going to be.
Consider referring to.
I'm going to be considering too.
Umm. And also just just please
please bear with me with the,
with the ambient noise. So
what's happening is that my room
is is, is, is just it's more
quiet but then I had to move
from my room to come down here
because I have no shooting right
now and yeah it's it's it's it's
it's it's quite it's quite dark
in there like I wouldn't I
wouldn't I wouldn't be visible
here so please bear with me with
the noise.
So this is the yes, I was saying
this is the requirements
document.
And.
If we see So what I'm gonna be
doing is I'm going to be
referring to this.
And then.
OK so.
So excuse me about that. So as
as I mentioned earlier, the
whole the whole.
Concept of the whole purpose of
the project is to cut down on
costs and also the the time
wasted one on high high traffic
rules.
And then yeah, two just don't
start on the project itself. So
these are the project looks
like.
Like on the on the first page,
when the user when the user for
example types in commute to suit
the there's a thing that they
wanna see on the on the screen.
So this is gonna be the login
form. The login form that they
wanna use and then.
OK. So just to go with the
comments documents step by step.
So this was gonna happen here.
No.
Alright, so there the the first
functionality is that a user
will have to be able to register
themselves.
So when we come here on this
page, we wanna click on new to
commute, join the family and I
click there and then it's gonna
take it to your page on which
you can be able to register
yourself as a new user.
And then.
So you're gonna find all the
fields here.
All the necessary pills.
Uh, names and name, phone,
e-mail, password is it's
required on the description here
and also.
You might be seeing that there's
there's there's. There's two
extra fields here that I added
when I explain why I decided to
to to go with those groups as
well, because there's a feature
that I thought would be very
hopeful that for such a.
Was such a project.
Umm, so we thought that this. I
mean, I'm in a communal area, so
there's gonna be voices around
me. Now if you know and then.
So this is the best.
This is the first.
Is the first comment here. It's
gonna be a huge play this form
again.
And then yeah, so this is this
is one of the person that I
couldn't.
Couldn't finish, so like the
notification part, but like how
would go with this part share is
that I would use Firebase
because what Firebase does is
that you can see it as a
functionality or fictionally.
Umm.
Creating creating a user for you
and then after that you wanna be
able to authenticate that user.
Uh, with with e-mail in
personality. So that's that's
how we move towards treating
towards finishing this part of
the authentication and then
after creating the account, it's
gonna automatically navigate you
to to the login page again.
And then when I come back to
login page and then going back
to your comments document again.
OK, so it seems like we're not
gonna be able to.
OK, there's a login, there's
login function to the bottom,
but I think.
Ohm I should stuck with it now
since it's very close to the
anticipation is well. So just to
address that quickly. So as as
as I mentioned before that so
the attention part is the part
that I couldn't get to you in
time, but how would go about it
is that from here on you the
user would insert that e-mail
then password and also and I
would authenticate them with
Firebase and from then they'll
be able to access.
The exclusive descriptive pages
of the site because they are
part of the of the site. They're
registered users, so that's
gonna be covering the login,
which is a file that is spelled
out here.
So when I get to again now to
save time, I'm not gonna be
probably gonna again because
I've seen what I'd like to say
about it. The the login part.
And then.
So another another change with
the login is that after the user
logs in, this is the first page
that this supposed to see if.
Which is the the the couples
that was that a user has joined.
So these are all your couples
here. And then I'm gonna explain
what is supposed to happen here
as well.
So right to go back here.
Alright, so we've covered.
OK. We've covered, we've covered
the the that you use it.
And then now we're gonna be
covering the new couple
opportunity. So a new couple of
opportunity essentially is, is
someone going into their app and
saying, OK, I'm gonna be on this
day, I'm gonna be going from,
for example, join aspect to
Pretoria. And then this is the
number of seats that I have in
my car. And then, yeah, this is
this is the number of days that
I have until like 4 for when,
like, my, my, my, my couple is
available. And then anyone who
wants to join me on that on that
trip.
Is is able to to do that. So
this is gonna be achieved by
this part share. So the user
from this the home page and when
I click on create cover both.
That's when I need them to the
speech here.
So there's a user ID here and
when explaining why that comes
about but.
This was for testing purposes
because I'm working with a a
database so that they can, so
they're gonna insert that
departure time expected forever
time origin. He's available
destination available seats, an
owner, any other special rules
as required to buy.
Uh, it's the the project
specification here.
And then.
Let's see.
All right, so currently.
Currently it's.
Because they could cause the
the.
I was testing it with the with
the JSON server right now, which
is this one here.
She's just one mute, but there
is. There is an actual C#
server, the vacant which is this
one here that I built with
asp.net core. So to test out
which.
Jason server first.
No.
These are the example. Maybe
like if you can see here.
There's only three of them now,
so if you try to add a couple,
maybe departure time is 3:00
o'clock.
The hips.
And then this is.
After three.
In the origin, probably. Let's
say we won the porch.
And in the case available, maybe
it's true.
Destination is town perhaps?
Just for example purposes, in
the name of 1 CS remaining and
then maybe it's a.
I don't know. I'm staying.
Something like that. Special
knows. Maybe he's.
Things next steps.
But then I create the couple.
And then after the couple is
created, we can go to the JSON
server again.
And then you will see that.
There's a new couple those
created here. So for this one I
was testing out the API, but
since it's supposed to work on
the real Life API, what I can
what I what I will do in that
case is that I'll come to the
couple here. So instead of this
part of the URL here which is
linking to the.
The the Jason server which is
this one here no rather this one
here. No one will opening. I
would replace that with.
This actual API here.
Umm.
So this thing has two.
So are we.
So these are the couples. Yeah.
So instead of using a JSON
server, replace it with this.
API endpoint here and then it's
gonna go to our actual database.
That's that's the. That's how we
do it would work in in real
life. And then so that's that's
part of the creating a new
couple opportunity and then.
Can you see?
So to join and leave couple
opportunity so this one here is
gonna be covered by this
passion. So you're gonna come to
all couples and they're gonna
see all of the couples here that
are that are that were ever
created in there but so so for
example origin Pretoria and then
if you want to see more details
about it you're gonna click on
the view couple so right now
it's not showing anything which
is another part that.
I haven't gotten to yet, so here
for example, it's it's it's
dragging.
So at this point also shows that
the API does work actually
because.
This punch? Yeah, is pulling
this data from from an API
endpoint like our actual one,
not the Jason server. And we can
see this from.
If I can do this.
Like these are all our couples
in and then just in case this
one is not clear, but it's in
Jason from it.
We can look at the database here
on Microsoft SQL Server.
So we see that there's a.
For example, if we, if we make a
query on our couples table.
Uh, yeah.
Select all. It's gonna be the
same query result, but then I'm
just. I just want to show you
again that it's coming from the
database.
So for example, if we look at
this one, the origin is coming
from the dog jonesburg to
Victoria and then the second one
is going to specifically they.
So this Chinese picture
pictorial and then join this
picture case. And so it's
actually pulling data from our
API endpoint.
And then yes, that's a.
That's it. So from here from
view couple.
What it actually happened here
is that from this component
here. So this component check
comes with all of these details
that we find here. So like the
user ID, the departure time,
arrival time, it's just that.
For for simplicity, for
simplicity purposes, I only show
the origin and the destination,
but everything is is is
accessible and on this company
chip. So if I were to say view
couple here.
Which is represented by this
button here.
You see all couples.
This.
So this between this between
here. So it's gonna lead me to
couples slash couple ID which is
this address here.
Which is this efficient so this
one defined you would represent
a a couple ID and then from that
couple ID I can request from the
database which is this one here.
I can request like write a
sequel query via the using the
Entity Premium Co C#.
Let's say maybe like select
where couple ID equals to two.
If there are, if the if the ID
is 2 and then it's gonna give me
everything.
Come here. And then I'm gonna
show all the details on that
show page and then something is
that I'm gonna show there is.
I'm gonna show the the join,
join couple or leave. Kapur like
if if it's a couple that a user
is actually signed up for.
So that's that's. That's how.
How about that part? And then
the search struggle
opportunities here essentially
someone is coming to say for
example like they want to go to
Victoria from Johannesburg.
So the person is gonna go into
the app.
And search up see.
So now we come into the app yet
and going to.
All couples, so all couples is
gonna be showing you like all
the couples that are ever
generated. As I mentioned. So
there's a section. There's a
search functionality yet. So
you're gonna search whatever
like you can search me by by
origin or by destination or by
date.
And then it's gonna go into the
database, which is all couples
here, and then bring you all of
the the the relevant results.
Umm.
Let me see.
And then view created couple
opportunities. So this one yeah
it's it's specific to the to the
user specific to the user. So
what happens is that when the
user logs in.
Like upon upon upon looking in
here.
So you can see here to say here
are you join the couples user?
So this is A is representative
of the person who's actually
logged into the account right
now. So in the same way as with.
The.
The other my couples example
that I that I made so we'll have
access to like a a user ID
perhaps here and then it's gonna
and then we're gonna request
from the database.
So if you look at a database,
yeah, if we have an idea of a
user, we can request a couple
because like the user ID is a
foreign is a foreign key to the
to the couple of table. So we
can find all of the couples that
I use that has created based on
their user ID.
So that's that's. That's how
that would go about this room
and then.
So the login part I managed
explained if I want you to to go
through it again, this is gonna
be very, very long, but I'm
happy to to answer any question
that can come with that. And
then the profile part share. So
for the profile the user has to
be able to go into their
profile.
Profile section was to be able
to update their details as part
of the specifications here, so
this one is gonna be achieved by
coming to this function. So for
example see this is another part
that I was trying to explain but
then I had quoted this one here
to to make an example, but I'm
gonna explain how it comes about
or how it works. So this one
here is the user ID.
So upon upon logging in, you're
gonna have access to.
The user ID, so we're gonna be
using that user ID to to make
request from our API our SQL
database. So for example with
this one.
Who requested from our API or or
allow our database the user of
ID one so the user ID one is for
Gorilla Céline Dion with 477 and
so on and so on. All of the
details in the able to edit
cancel the.
Yeah. Details yet. So to show
that this this information is
really corresponds, we can look
at let me see.
So this was SQL Server as well.
So this is the first user here,
they will come.
With the idea of 1 but Colum
cylinder London just just was
just using myself as a query as
a quick example here.
And then so yes, yeah, the
information does cause 100 **.
Here you go. So this is the
information that you will see
upon creating upon checking on
you.
Your profile I couldn't here and
to show that the editing also
works. Let's say maybe I changed
this gesture Clifford, and then
maybe there's 76020000 and then
I edit page. So I've picked it,
but nothing's happening. That's
because I haven't. I didn't
implement.
Then.
But in that noise it didn't
implement the the the
navigation, but it's supposed to
automatically navigate you to
like a different page. There's a
form of feedback that you know
that you just click now worked
or.
Yeah. Can you then change it to
a different page or like give
you like a pop up here saying
that, you know what, you you
editing was successful?
Umm, so now because I changed
those parts, we can come back
to.
Can we can go back?
And then come back to your
profile again. Then we'll see
that everything is still. See,
it's changed now. It's not only
Clifford Corolla and it's no
longer the 7621. There's no 00.
So it shows that the 82 was
successful. Then if maybe you
change your mind, you can click
on back and then consequently
take you back to your homepage
there. And then there's a logout
button as well. And then this
foster needs Firebase to
actually, like, go about the
user so that they have to log in
back again to access.
Order one.
Ohh, the features of the site
and it now I did mention that
there was an extra.
I think we see there was on the
registration part.
Just do this when the
registration part. I mentioned
that there was extra fields that
were not mentioned in the
specification and what I thought
to myself was I think it would
be a bit a bit a bit, maybe a
bit more interesting for me to
to, you know, like challenge
myself a bit more further and
you know try to use because I'm
aware that we'll advise you.
Preferably use C# and also like
the front end technologies
JavaScript react.
So I thought to myself, maybe if
I can use this well, try to try
to see if I can work with two
API on on my project and then I
I decided that you know what,
maybe I should try to create a
pitch angle rest API so on this
API here I'm gonna be having
like a different data. It's it's
an external database altogether.
Umm, it's an external database
linked together, So what it does
that I thought to myself, you
know what, like, what's the
feature that Sachin app would
like to like would have and that
would possibly like give
assurance to people like I know
like it's not a, it's not like a
a project that's going on to.
Uh. Production. But I I thought
it was a nice feature tuned to
take implement and also just to
touch upon my skills as well.
Letter to me. So perhaps you
know with with commuting like
this, I think people would feel
very much safer knowing that you
know what the vehicles are
actually registered.
And also yeah, like this is
maybe for example like with Home
Affairs for example, because,
yes.
You know. Yes, it's it's, it's
not to say that.
National like Citizens do not
get up to any mischievous acts
of crime, but I think it is. I
really do think that if if if
someone is assured that you know
what the details of the driver
are available at Home Office,
the driver is very less likely
to to like create like like
perform any crime because they
know that you know they can be
tricked very easily. So this is
the this is the the purpose of
these extra fields here.
With the vehicle description and
the vehicle registration so the
vehicle registration is gonna be
linked to.
Like that external database
because that extended and then
that external database has not
only these two fields but also
like the the name of the driver
at the cinema of the driver,
that identity number of the
driver and so on and so on. Is
it so upon upon joining here if
the user is joining as a as a as
a driver here and seeing if
applicable here?
They can give that description
and also their registration, and
then we'll go to.
So this is the API that I
created for the.
It's an added babies. Uh using
Jingle in Jingle this framework.
So for example with this one
here.
It's still being all the details
of the travelers. And then right
now it's just one driver because
I had only like, I just put in
one example here for like for
for example purposes, but it it
would look something very much
like this. So you see here
there's there's vehicle
registration. I mean we know
that every vehicle registration
is unique. So with this vehicle
registration here we can.
Umm. Like.
Run it. We can like compute,
compare it with the.
The the details that the that
the user is is, is is attempting
to register with one commute and
then we wanna be comparing them
with this external database here
and then seeing that OK like was
this specific vehicle registered
with Home Affairs or something
like that. You know? So because
we know that if the registration
we have the driver name which is
shown here and then we have the
driver send e-mail. So I'm in
more details. These were just
for example purposes.
And this is the kind of
information that would have on
the driver if they use.
Like vehicle registration in the
vehicle.
Description like this on on the
commute app so I thought I
thought that would be like an
extra, you know, it's not
specified on the on the app. I
know that I may be giving you
more work, but I thought it's
very something that you know
would be interesting to to to
implement and also just to just
to test out some some more
skills as well. So yeah, that's
a that's about it.
Otherwise, like All in all.
Ohh and also the this one last
thing that I wanted to to
mention.
Uh.
Is that, uh, this part here?
So what happens with this is
that when when a user is gonna
be deleting like they are like
for example if a user is deleted
from the from the site itself.
So if we look at for example.
User ID him so user ID is a
foreign key to the couple ID as
I mentioned. So what this means
is that if a user gets this gets
deleted from the from the site
then automatically all of their
couples that they've ever
created are also going to be
deleted. And if I can just show
something quickly again.
Is.
OK, me.
But they're supposed to be.
We can see your food Turks
location.
So this.
I might be that you you missing
my.
See.
So there's a cascade to ease.
This is the rules occur, the
delete called Caskey. So what
cascade means is that if we have
a foreign key like for example
like user ID is a foreign key to
to to to the couple table. What
that means is that if you're
gonna be deleting a user, then
all of their.
Couples that they've ever
created are also going to be
treated, so that's gonna be
handled by that rule here that
there was also something that
might be put into mention as
well. And yeah, just to to to
move over time at this point.
But just to to to keep it very
short. I'm gonna leave it here.
Appreciate you looking at the
video up to this point. And I am
available e-mail or via phone.
For you and the federal
questions, and yeah, like no
notice on, honestly, no, not to
sound cliche, but I actually
did. If you did have fun with
the project, it was there was
high pressure ease but it it it
allowed me to to bring it to
middle 80s for example. Now I
know that you know I can I can
try to temper around with
multiple API's in the same the
same.
From from where application and
also with Firebase as well like
Firebase it's a good like I've
worked with authentication
before but I was using a A GWT
JavaScript web tokens compared
to Firebase language GWT. I
really like the longer route
towards authentication. So now I
know that you know what I'm
gonna I'm gonna be looking at.
I'm a fair piece in more detail
from now one thing and it makes
things a bit more quicker for
for like quicker. You know
projects like this.
Definitely I'm jitter, which is
also has its own advantages, but
I think for for understanding
concepts fire base does help
with with that because it's
quicker. Ohh so yeah, just two
that's that's that's that's it
for me.
Baby for for the the project and
yes, looking for to hearing from
you.
Speaking to.
That's.
Right.
Alright, thank you. And yes, as
I mentioned, I'll be available
via e-mail or via text or any
other further details.
Thank you very much.